The reason it's not going to be the most conventional
convocation speech is because there is something
a little different going on.
Right now, you all leave, you all leave in the most
unusual time ever.
And this is something that people might say often,
but I think it's actually true this time.
And the reason it's true this time is because of AI,
right, obviously.
I mean, from what I hear the AI of today has already
changed what it means to be a student by a pretty
considerable degree.
That's what I sense, and I think it's true.
But of course, the impact of AI goes beyond that
what happens to the kind of work we do.
Well, it's starting to change a little bit in someone
known and unpredictable ways.
And some work may feel it sooner.
Some work might feel it later.
With today's AI, you can go on Twitter,
and you can look at what I can do and what people say.
And you might feel a little bit over that.
You wonder, hey, which skills are useful,
which ones will be less useful.
So you've got these questions going on.
And so you can say that the current level of challenge
is how will it affect work and our careers?
But the thing, the real challenge with AI,
is that it's really unprecedented and really
extreme, and it's going to be very different in the future
compared to the way it is today.
You know, we've all seen AI.
We've all spoken to a computer and a computer
and spoken back to us, which is a new thing.
Computers would not do this in the past, but now they do.
You speak to a computer, they need to understand you,
and it speaks back to you.
And it also does it in voice, and it writes some code.
It's pretty crazy.
But there are so many things it cannot do as well,
and it's so deficient.
So you can say it still needs to catch up on a lot of things.
But it's evocative.
It's good enough that you can ask yourself,
you could imagine, okay, fine.
In some number of years, some people say it's in three,
some people say it's in five, 10 numbers
of being thrown around.
It's a bit hard to predict the future.
But slowly, but surely, or maybe not so slowly,
AI will keep getting better.
And the they will come when AI will do all of our,
all the things that we can do.
Not just some of them, but all of them.
Anything which I can learn, anything which any,
any one of you can learn, the AI could do as well.
How do we know this, by the way?
How can I be so sure?
How can I be so sure of that?
The reason is that all of us have a brain,
and the brain is a biological computer.
That's why we have a brain,
the brain is a biological computer.
So why can't a digital computer
a digital brain do the same things?
This is the one sentence summary for why AI
will be able to do all those things,
because we have a brain and the brain is a biological computer.
And so you can start asking yourself,
what's going to happen, what's going to happen
when computers can do all of our jobs, right?
Those are really big questions, those are dramatic questions.
And right now that you start thinking about it a little bit,
you go, gosh, that's a little intense.
But it's actually only part of the intensity,
because what's going to happen?
What will be the collective V,
want to use these AI's for?
Do more work, grow the economy, do R&D, do AI research,
so then the rate of progress will become really extremely fast.
For some time, at least, these are such extreme things.
These are such an imaginable things.
So right now, I'm trying to pull you in
to add a little bit into this headspace
of this really extreme and radical future that AI creates.
But it's also very difficult to imagine.
It's very, very difficult to imagine.
It's very difficult to internalize
and to really believe on an emotional level,
even I struggle with it.
And yet the logic seems to dictate that this very likely
should happen.
So what does one do in such a world?
There is a quote, which is like this, which goes like this.
It says, you may not take interest in politics,
but politics will take interest in you.
So the same applies to AI many times over.
And in particular, I think that by simply using AI
and looking at what the best AI of today can do,
you get an intuition, you get an intuition.
And as AI continues to improve in one year,
in two years and three years, the intuition will become stronger.
And a lot of the things that you're talking about now,
they will become much more real.
They'll become less imaginary.
In the end of the day, no amount of essays
and explanations can compete with what we see
with our own senses, with our own two eyes.
And especially with AI, the very smart, super intelligent AI
in the future, there will be very profound issues
about making sure that they say what they say
and not pretend to be something else.
And I'm really condensing a lot
into a small amount of information here in time here.
But overall, by simply looking at what I can do,
not ignore it, when the time comes,
that will generate the energy that's required
to overcome the huge challenge that AI will pose.
And the challenge that AI poses in some sense
is the greatest challenge of humanity ever.
And overcoming it, you'll also have the group,
you'll also bring the greatest reward.
And in some sense, whether you like it or not,
your life's going to be affected by AI
to a great extent.
And so looking at it, paying attention,
and then generating the energy to solve the problems
that will come up, that's going to be the main thing.